\" $Format: ".TH pyguis 1 \"GUIS widget server\" \"$ReleaseVersion$ - $Date$\""$
.TH pyguis 1 "GUIS widget server" "1.6 - Tue, 02 Sep 2003 21:30:28 +0200"
.SH NAME
.LP
pyguis \- a Python GUI widget server
.LP
ruguis \- a Ruby GUI widget server
.LP
pyguis-scripter \- to run a script
.LP
ruguis-scripter \- to run a script
.sp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
pyguis [\fB-i\fP \fIinputchan\fP] [\fB-o\fP \fIoutputchan\fP] 
[\fB-s\fP \fIinitialscript\fP] 
[\fB-p\fP \fIpipecommand\fP] #without any input or output chan
[\fB-h\fP] #help
[\fB-L\fP \fIlogfile\fP] 
[\fI ..other gtk arguments.. \fP] 
[\fB-T\fP] #show trace window
[\fB-D\fP] #debug (huge) output -if not disabled at compile time
.LP
ruguis ... #like above for Ruby
.LP
pyguis-scripter \fIinitialscript\fP [\fB-i\fP \fIinputchan\fP] 
[\fB-o\fP \fIoutputchan\fP]  
[\fB-p\fP \fIpipecommand\fP] [\fB-T\fP] [\fB-D\fP] [\fI ..other gtk arguments.. \fP]
.LP
ruguis-scripter #like above for Ruby

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBpyguis\fP is a GTK2 graphic user interface "server" which interpret
requests (terminated by a double-newline or a formfeed) in Python
and send replies to an applications.  the guis Python module
provides the primitives to exchange with the client application,
eg send replies, etc..; an initial Python script may be used to
initialise \fBpyguis\fP  (eg define functions, make widgets, ...).
\fBpyguis\fP requires the pygtk (>= 1.99.18) Python binding to GTK2.

\fBruguis\fP is an experimental port to Ruby, using the Ruby-Gnome2
Ruby binding to GTK2.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-i\fR \fIinput channel\fP 
Gets input Python requests (terminated
by double-newline or formfeed) from this channel. A channel is a file
name (usually a FIFO), or a file descriptor number (if it contains
only digits). So \fB-i /path/to/fifo\fP get inputs from the file
/path/to/fifo while \fB-i 0\fP read input from stdin (fd0). If the
input channel is a single dash i.e. \fB-\fP then stdin is taken as the
input channel.  Don't use \fB-i\fP when giving a pipe command thru
\fB-p\fP

.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIinitial script\fP 
Make the Python interpreter load the initial script file. If the first
argument (argv[0]) ends with \fB-scripter\fP then the second argument
is the initial script. Hence, pyguis scripts might start with the
magic line \fF#!  /usr/bin/env pyguis-scripter\fP provided that
pyguis-scripter exist in your path (e.g. as a symbolic link to
pyguis).

.TP 
\fB\-o\fR \fIoutput channel\fP
Send (newline terminated) output replied to this channel. A channel is
a file name (usually a FIFO), or a file descriptor number (if it
contains only digits). So \fB-o /path/to/fifo\fP send output to file
/path/to/fifo while \fB-o 1\fP send output to stdout (fd1). Don't use
\fB-o\fP when giving a pipe command thru \fB-p\fP, and don't send
output to stderr. If the output channel is a single dash i.e. \fB-\fP
then stdout is taken as the output channel.

.TP 
\fB\-p\fR \fIpiped command\fP
Fork the specified command and read python requests from its stdout
and send replies to its stdin. (Don't use this option with \fB-i\fR or
\fB-o\fR). If the command name contain no spaces, it is just forked
and execvp(3)-ed, otherwise a shell (your $SHELL or else /bin/sh) is
forked (with -c) to execute it.

.TP 
\fB\-T\fR 
Open a window for tracing the protocol (both requests & replies). You
can enable or disable tracing (and debugging messages) thru menus. The
GGUIS_TRACE environment variable may also be used (set it to 1 or
clear it to 0).

.TP 
\fB\-D\fR 
Output lots of debug information on stderr.  Debug may be
disabled at compile time thru the -DNDEBUG compile flag. The
GGUIS_DEBUG environment variable may also be used (set it to 1 or
clear it to 0)

.TP 
\fB\-L\fR \fIlogfile\fP
Write to the given \fIlogfile\fP every request just before it is
interpreted (and flush the logfile at every request).

.TP 
\fB\-v\fR 
version info
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR 
help message

.TP 
Usual GTK arguments are also accepted.

.SH DETAILS

.LP
See pygtk and GTK documentation for GTK2 and it bindings in
Python. This program should probably be compiled and used without any
thread support in Python (or GTK).

.LP
This program add a small \fBguis\fP module to Python, which provides
notably the \fBraw_send\fP primitive (which sends it argument -a
string- back thru the output channel). The \fBto_send\fP primitive
convert Python strings and numbers to a sendable representation, or
try to use a \fBto_send\fP attribute or method otherwise. The
\fBend_of_input_hook\fP primitive gets or sets the callable hook (called at end
of input). The \fBend_timeout\fP primitives gets or sets the end timeout
(in milliseconds) - delay after which pyguis exits after end of input.

.LP
There are no default for input or output channels. You always need to
specify both \fB-i\fP and \fB-o\fP (in slave mode, when the
application start pyguis) or the \fB-p\fP piped command (in master
mode, when pyguis starts your application).


.LP
An experimental port to Ruby is available since version 1.3; Use the
\fBruguis\fP command or \fBruguis-scripter\fP trick.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
python(1), the python site on http://www.python.org/ the GTK site on
http://www.gtk.org/ and the pygtk page on
http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/ and look for updates on pyguis
either on http://freshmeat.net/projects/guis or on
http://starynkevitch.net/Basile/guisintro.html
.LP
ruby(1), the ruby site on http://www.ruby-lang.org/ and the Gnome2
(hence Gtk2) binding on http://ruby-gnome2.sourceforge.jp/

.SH "AUTHOR"
Basile STARYNKEVITCH wrote guis and this man page. pyguis is free
opensource software under Gnu GPL license. This man page can be reused
freely. Please send comments, patches, suggestions, by email to
<basile@starynkevitch.net> mentioning Guis in the subject.


\" eof $Id: pyguis.man 1.4 Tue, 02 Sep 2003 21:30:28 +0200 basile $